New script for the vocabulary generation (#936)
w3c/vc-data-model: vocab/credentials/v2/README.md

# Generate RDFS vocabulary files

> The script in the directory generates RDFS vocabulary files in JSON and Turtle formats, plus a human readable HTML file containing the vocabulary in RDFa, based on a simple vocabulary definition in a CSV file. Neither the script nor the CSV format is prepared for complex vocabularies; its primary goal is to simplify the generation of simple, straightforward RDFS vocabularies without, e.g., sophisticated OWL statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script in the directory generates RDFS vocabulary files in JSON and Turtle formats, plus a human readable HTML file containing the vocabulary in RDFa, based on a simple vocabulary definition in a CSV file. Neither the script nor the CSV format is prepared for complex vocabularies; its primary goal is to simplify the generation of simple, straightforward RDFS vocabularies without, for instance, sophisticated OWL statements.
```

## Definition of the vocabulary in the CSV file

> The vocabulary is defined in a CSV file, which contains the following columns: `category`, `id`, `property`, `value`, `label`, `upper value`, `domain`, `range`, `comment`, and `deprecated`. The `category` column defines the category of the row, and the interpretation of the row's content, i.e., of the other columns, depends on this category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vocabulary is defined in a CSV file, which contains the following columns: `category`, `id`, `property`, `value`, `label`, `upper value`, `domain`, `range`, `comment`, and `deprecated`. The `category` column defines the category of the row, and the interpretation of the row's content (that is, of the other columns) depends on this category.
```

The available categories, and the corresponding interpretation of the columns, are:

> - `vocab`: the prefix and the URL of the vocabulary that is being specified is provided in the `id` and `value` columns, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `vocab`: the prefix and the URL of the vocabulary that is being specified are provided in the `id` and `value` columns, respectively.
```

> - `prefix`: definition of a prefix, and corresponding URL, for each external external vocabulary in use, defined by the `id` and `value` columns, respectively. Note that some prefix/value pairs are defined by default, and it is not necessary to define them here; these are: `dc`, `owl`, `rdf`, `rdfs`, and `xsd`.

Reviewer: I think the URLs of these predefined prefixes should be presented here, along with the prefixes themselves, to avoid any future misunderstanding or misinterpretation.

Author: Thanks @TallTed, done.

> - `ontology`: definition of an "ontology property", i.e., a statement made on the vocabulary itself. The (prefixed) property term is defined in the `property` column, and the value in the `value` column. If the value can be parsed as a URL, it is considered to be the URL of an external resource, otherwise the value is considered to be an (English) text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ontology`: definition of an "ontology property", that is, a statement made about the vocabulary itself. The (prefixed) property term is defined in the `property` column, and the value in the `value` column. If the value can be parsed as a URL, it is considered to be the URL of an external resource; otherwise, the value is considered to be (English) text.
```

>     It is a good practice to provide, at least, `dc:description` as an ontology property with a short description of the vocabulary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is good practice to provide, at least, `dc:description` as an ontology property with a short description of the vocabulary.
```

> - `class`: definition of a class. The `id` column defines the class name (no prefix should be used); the possible superclasses are defined in the  `upper value` column as a single term, or a comma separated list of terms. There should be a label and a longer description in English text, provided by the `label` and `comment` columns, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `class`: definition of a class. The `id` column defines the class name (no prefix should be used here); possible superclasses are defined in the `upper value` column as a single term, or as a comma-separated list of terms. There should be a label and a longer description in English text provided in the `label` and `comment` columns, respectively.
```

>     The class can be declared as deprecated by setting the `deprecated` column to "true".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A class can be declared as deprecated by setting its `deprecated` column to "true".
```

> - `property`: definition of a property. The `id` column defines the property name (no prefix should be used); the possible superproperties are defined in the column `upper value` as a single term, or a comma separated list of terms. The domain and range classes can also be provided as a single term, or a comma separated list thereof, in the `domain` and `range` columns. There should be a label and a longer description in English text, provided by the `label` and `comment` columns, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `property`: definition of a property. The `id` column defines the property name (no prefix should be used here); possible superproperties are defined in the column `upper value` as a single term, or as a comma-separated list of terms. The domain and range classes can also be provided as a single term, or as a comma separated list thereof, in the `domain` and `range` columns. There should be a label and a longer description in English text, provided by the `label` and `comment` columns, respectively.
```

>     The property can be declared as deprecated by setting the `deprecated` column to "yes".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A property can be declared as deprecated by setting its `deprecated` column to "yes".
```

> - `individual`: definition of an individual, i.e., a single resource defined in the vocabulary. The `id` column defines the individual's name (no prefix should be used); the possible types are defined in the column `upper value` as a single term, or a comma separated list of terms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `individual`: definition of an individual, i.e., a single resource defined in the vocabulary. The `id` column defines the individual's name (no prefix should be used here); the possible types are defined in the column `upper value` as a single term, or a comma separated list of terms. 
```

> ## Installation and running 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation and use
```

> The script is in TypeScript (version 4.6 and beyond) running on top of node.js (version 16 and beyond). To install and run the script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script is in TypeScript (version 4.6 and beyond) running on top of `node.js` (version 16 and beyond). Take the following steps to install and run the script:
```

> 1. Install [node.js](https://nodejs.org/) on your local machine. Installation of node.js should also automatically install the [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) package manager.
> 2. In the directory of the script run `npm install` on the command line. This installs all the necessary packages in the `node_modules` subdirectory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install [`node.js`](https://nodejs.org/) on your local machine. Installation of `node.js` should automatically install the [`npm`](https://www.npmjs.com) package manager.
2. In the directory of the script, run `npm install` on the command line. This installs all the necessary packages in the `node_modules` subdirectory.
```

3. The script can be run through `npm run generate` on the command line.

The vocabulary specification in CSV is in the `vocabulary.csv` file. The script generates the files `vocabulary.ttl`, `vocabulary.jsonld` and `vocabulary.html` for, respectively, the Turtle, JSON-LD, and HTML representations.

## Content of the directory

- `Readme.md`: this file.
- `vocabulary.csv`: the vocabulary specification.
- `package.json`: configuration file for `npm`.

> - `template.json`: an HTML template file used by the script; it is the skeleton of the final HTML format, also based on [respec](https://respec.org/docs/). Care should be taken, if the file is modified, not to change the core structure and the various, possibly empty, HTML elements with `@id` values. Those elements are filled with content by the script when generating the `vocabulary.html` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `template.json`: an HTML template file used by the script; it is the skeleton of the final HTML format, also based on [ReSpec](https://respec.org/docs/). If the file is modified, care should be taken to not change the core structure and the various, possibly empty, HTML elements with `@id` values. The script fills those elements with content when generating the `vocabulary.html` file.
```
